# bio-H2-from-eSMR
Hydrogen from biogas with electrified steam methane reforming

# Abstract:

This work assesses a chemical plant for the conversion of biogas into negative emission hydrogen via electrified reforming and CO2 separation. Electrification of the reformer allows for enhanced syngas production, compact reactor designs and flexible operation, thanks to the avoidance of combustion and heat transfer through pressure walls. The integration of the process with solar and wind power generation has been assessed by part-load process simulations and plant sizing and operation optimization through yearly simulations with hourly discretization. Different European locations with different wind and solar availabilities were assessed considering (i) short- and long-term cost scenarios for renewables and battery technologies and (ii) different plant size (from 390 to 3900 Nm3/h of biogas capacity). The overarching scope of the paper is to calculate the cost of the produced hydrogen and the economic value of flexibility for plants installed in different locations, under different cost scenarios.
At design load, the assessed process consumes 17.7 kWh of electricity per kgH2 and retains 96% of the biogas chemical energy in the produced hydrogen. Additionally, 76% of the biogenic carbon is recovered as high-purity liquid CO2, achieving up to -9 kgCO2/kgH2 negative emissions.
When powered with 95% of renewable energy, hydrogen production cost ranges from 2.53-2.95 €/kg for a long-term REN cost scenario and large-scale flexible plant to 5.95-7.11 €/kg for a short-term REN cost scenario and small-scale inflexible plants. For small-scale plants, flexibility allows to reduce the hydrogen production cost by 11-16% with respect to the inflexible plant in the short-term renewables cost scenario and by 1-4% in the long-term cost scenario. For large-scale plants, the adoption of a flexible plant leads to a reduction of 17-23% of the hydrogen cost in the short-term scenario and of 6-22% in the long-term scenario.

